Rework user guide introduction (#3380)
nilearn/nilearn: doc/introduction.rst

============

What is ``nilearn``?
====================

> ``nilearn`` is a package that makes is easy to use advanced machine learning techniques so as to analyze data acquired with MRI machines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``nilearn`` is a package that makes it easy to use advanced machine learning techniques to analyze data acquired with MRI machines.
```

In particular, underlying machine learning problems include
:ref:`decoding brain data <decoding>`,
computing :ref:`brain parcellations <parcellating_brain>`,
analyzing :ref:`functional connectivity <functional_connectomes>` and :ref:`connectomes <functional_connectomes>`,
doing multi-voxel pattern analysis (MVPA) or :ref:`predictive modelling <decoding>`.

``nilearn`` can readily be used on :ref:`task fMRI <decoding_intro>`,
:ref:`resting-state <functional_connectomes>`, or
:ref:`voxel-based morphometry (VBM) <sphx_glr_auto_examples_02_decoding_plot_oasis_vbm.py>` data.

For machine learning experts, the value of ``nilearn`` can be seen as
domain-specific **feature engineering** construction, that is, shaping

> neuroimaging data into a feature matrix well suited to statistical learning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
neuroimaging data into a feature matrix well suited for statistical learning.
```

> neuroimaging data into a feature matrix well suited to statistical learning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
neuroimaging data into a feature matrix well suited for statistical learning.
```

.. note::

    It is ok if these terms don't make sense to you yet:
    this guide will walk you through them in a comprehensive manner.

.. _quick_start:

Using ``nilearn`` for the first time
====================================

``nilearn`` is a Python library. If you have never used Python before,
you should probably have a look at a `general introduction about Python <http://www.learnpython.org/>`_
as well as to an `introduction to using Python for science <http://scipy-lectures.github.io/>`_ before diving into ``nilearn``.

Moreover, we recommend using ``nilearn`` with `Jupyter <http://jupyter.org>`_ notebooks or
`IPython <http://ipython.org>`_ sessions. They provide an interactive 
environment that greatly facilitates debugging and visualisation.

First steps with nilearn
------------------------

At this stage, you should have :ref:`installed <quickstart>` ``nilearn`` and opened a Jupyter notebook
or an IPython / Python session.  First, load ``nilearn`` with

.. code-block:: default

    import nilearn

> ``nilearn`` comes in with some data that are commonly used in neuroimaging.
> For instance, it comes with volumic template images of brains such as MNI:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``nilearn`` comes with some data commonly used in neuroimaging.
For instance, it comes with volumetric template images of brains such as MNI:
```

Author: Haha, thanks, I always get volume/volumetric/surface wrong :smile:

    
.. code-block:: default

    print(nilearn.datasets.MNI152_FILE_PATH)

Output:

.. code-block:: text
    :class: highlight-primary

    '/home/yasmin/nilearn/nilearn/nilearn/datasets/data/mni_icbm152_t1_tal_nlin_sym_09a_converted.nii.gz'

Let's have a look at this image:

.. code-block:: default

    nilearn.plotting.plot_img(nilearn.datasets.MNI152_FILE_PATH)

.. image:: auto_examples/01_plotting/images/sphx_glr_plot_demo_glass_brain_001.png
    :target: auto_examples/00_tutorials/images/sphx_glr_plot_nilearn_101_001.png
    :align: center
    :scale: 60

Learning with the API references
--------------------------------

> In the last command, you just made use of 2 ``nilearn`` modules: the :mod:`nilearn.datasets`
> and the :mod:`nilearn.plotting` modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the last command, you just made use of 2 ``nilearn`` modules: :mod:`nilearn.datasets`
and :mod:`nilearn.plotting`.
```

On top of this guide, there is a lot of content available outside of ``nilearn``
that could be of interest to new-comers:

1. A quick and gentle introduction to scientific computing with Python with the `scipy lecture notes <http://scipy-lectures.github.io/>`_.

2. (For French readers) `An introduction to cognitive neuroscience <https://psy3018.github.io/intro.html>`_ by Pierre Bellec.

3. The documentation of ``scikit-learn`` explains each method with tips on practical use and examples: :sklearn:`\ `.  While not specific to neuroimaging, it is often a recommended read.

Besides, you can find help on :neurostars:`neurostars <>` for questions
related to ``nilearn`` and to computational neuroscience in general.
Finally, the ``nilearn`` team organizes weekly :ref:`office hours <quickstart>`.
We can also be reached on :ref:`github <https://github.com/nilearn/nilearn/issues>`
in case you find a bug.

Machine learning applications to Neuroimaging
=============================================

``nilearn`` brings easy-to-use machine learning tools that can be leveraged to solve more complex applications.
The interested reader can dive into the following articles for more content.

> We give a non-exhaustive list of important such applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We give a non-exhaustive list of such important applications.
```

   Compute the mean :term:`EPI` for one individual of the brain development
   dataset downloaded with :func:`nilearn.datasets.fetch_development_fmri` and
   smooth it with an :term:`FWHM` varying from 0mm to 20mm in increments of 5mm

   **Intermediate steps:**

   1. Run :func:`nilearn.datasets.fetch_development_fmri` and inspect the ``.keys()`` of the returned object

   2. Check the :mod:`nilearn.image` module in the documentation to find a function to compute the mean of a 4D image

   3. Check the :mod:`nilearn.image` module again to find a function which smoothes images

   4. Plot the computed image for each smoothing value

   A solution can be found :ref:`here <sphx_glr_auto_examples_06_manipulating_images_plot_smooth_mean_image.py>`.

Learning with examples
----------------------

``nilearn`` comes with a lot of :ref:`examples/tutorials <tutorial_examples>`.
Going through them should give you a precise overview of what you can achieve with this package.

For new-comers, we recommend going through the following examples in the suggested order:

.. raw:: html

    <div class="sphx-glr-thumbnails">

.. raw:: html

>     <div class="sphx-glr-thumbcontainer" tooltip="A simple example showing how to load an existing Nifti file and use basic nilearn functionaliti...">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <div class="sphx-glr-thumbcontainer" tooltip="A simple example showing how to load an existing Nifti file and use basic nilearn functionalities">
```

    </div>

.. raw:: html

    <div class="sphx-glr-thumbcontainer" tooltip="In this tutorial, we use a General Linear Model (:term:`GLM`) to compare the fMRI signal during...">

.. only:: html

  .. image:: /auto_examples/00_tutorials/images/thumb/sphx_glr_plot_single_subject_single_run_thumb.png
    :alt: Intro to GLM Analysis: a single-session, single-subject fMRI dataset

  :ref:`sphx_glr_auto_examples_00_tutorials_plot_single_subject_single_run.py`

.. raw:: html

      <div class="sphx-glr-thumbnail-title">Intro to GLM Analysis: a single-session, single-subject fMRI dataset</div>
    </div>

.. raw:: html

    <div class="sphx-glr-thumbcontainer" tooltip="In this example, we will project a 3D statistical map onto a cortical mesh using vol_to_surf, d...">

.. only:: html

  .. image:: /auto_examples/01_plotting/images/thumb/sphx_glr_plot_3d_map_to_surface_projection_thumb.png
    :alt: Making a surface plot of a 3D statistical map

  :ref:`sphx_glr_auto_examples_01_plotting_plot_3d_map_to_surface_projection.py`

.. raw:: html

      <div class="sphx-glr-thumbnail-title">Making a surface plot of a 3D statistical map</div>
    </div>

.. raw:: html

>     <div class="sphx-glr-thumbcontainer" tooltip="This example shows manual steps to create and further modify an ROI spatial mask. They represen...">

Reviewer 2: unended sentence.

Author: This is because that's what the tooltip looks like for these examples in the examples gallery :)

.. only:: html

  .. image:: /auto_examples/06_manipulating_images/images/thumb/sphx_glr_plot_roi_extraction_thumb.png
    :alt: Computing a Region of Interest (ROI) mask manually

  :ref:`sphx_glr_auto_examples_06_manipulating_images_plot_roi_extraction.py`

.. raw:: html

      <div class="sphx-glr-thumbnail-title">Computing a Region of Interest (ROI) mask manually</div>
    </div>

.. raw:: html

>     <div class="sphx-glr-thumbcontainer" tooltip="Here, we will go through a full step-by-step example of fitting a GLM to experimental data and ...">

Reviewer 2: Same here.

.. only:: html

  .. image:: /auto_examples/04_glm_first_level/images/thumb/sphx_glr_plot_fiac_analysis_thumb.png
    :alt: Simple example of two-session fMRI model fitting

  :ref:`sphx_glr_auto_examples_04_glm_first_level_plot_fiac_analysis.py`

.. raw:: html

      <div class="sphx-glr-thumbnail-title">Simple example of two-session fMRI model fitting</div>
    </div>

.. raw:: html

>     <div class="sphx-glr-thumbcontainer" tooltip="This example compares different kinds of functional connectivity between regions of interest : ...">

Reviewer 2: Same here

Moreover, you can use ``nilearn`` with `Jupyter <http://jupyter.org>`_ notebooks or
`IPython <http://ipython.org>`_ sessions. They provide an interactive 
environment that greatly facilitates debugging and visualisation.

Besides, you can find help on :neurostars:`neurostars <>` for questions
related to ``nilearn`` and to computational neuroscience in general.
Finally, the ``nilearn`` team organizes weekly :ref:`office hours <quickstart>`.
We can also be reached on :ref:`github <https://github.com/nilearn/nilearn/issues>`
in case you find a bug.

Machine learning applications to Neuroimaging
=============================================

``nilearn`` brings easy-to-use machine learning tools that can be leveraged to solve more complex applications.
The interested reader can dive into the following articles for more content.

We give a non-exhaustive list of such important applications.
    
**Diagnosis and prognosis**

Predicting a clinical score or even treatment response
from brain imaging with :ref:`supervised
learning <decoding>` e.g. `[Mourao-Miranda 2012]
<http://www.plosone.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0029482>`_

> **Measuring generalization scores**

Reviewer 2: This part sounds a bit weird.

Author: Agreed ; I got rid of the title altogether.

that could be of interest to new-comers:

1. `An introduction to fMRI <https://www.cs.mtsu.edu/~xyang/fMRIHandBook.pdf>`_ by Russel Poldrack, Jeanette Mumford and Thomas Nichols.

2. (For French readers) `An introduction to cognitive neuroscience <https://psy3018.github.io/intro.html>`_ given at the University of Montréal.

3. The documentation of ``scikit-learn`` explains each method with tips on practical use and examples: :sklearn:`\ `.  While not specific to neuroimaging, it is often a recommended read.

4. (For Python beginners) A quick and gentle introduction to scientific computing with Python with the `scipy lecture notes <http://scipy-lectures.github.io/>`_.
Moreover, you can use ``nilearn`` with `Jupyter <http://jupyter.org>`_ notebooks or
`IPython <http://ipython.org>`_ sessions. They provide an interactive 
environment that greatly facilitates debugging and visualisation.

Besides, you can find help on :neurostars:`neurostars <>` for questions
related to ``nilearn`` and to computational neuroscience in general.
Finally, the ``nilearn`` team organizes weekly :ref:`office hours <quickstart>`.

> We can also be reached on :ref:`github <https://github.com/nilearn/nilearn/issues>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can also be reached on :nilearn-gh:`github <issues>`
```

^that should work. When in doubt you can always do it this way:
 ```
`github <https://github.com/nilearn/nilearn/issues>`_
```
